# Chapter 1: The challenge

Welcome to Peer to Peer, where you can hone your skills by watching live coding videos.

Our guest today is Soledad Penades, who is a developer evangelist at Mozilla.
She works on the web platform and developer tools for Firefox.
And she loves to experiment with Web Audio and Web GL.

I'm your host, Drew Neil, and the challenge that I set for Sole is called "Clapping Music".

DN: Ok Sole, do you want to start by reading the challenge?
SP: Yeah! I'll try to do my best! Ok, so the challenge is: Create a system that performs Steve Reich's composition "Clapping Music".
"Clapping Music" has two parts that are based on the same rhythmic cell. Part 1 plays this rhythmic cell consistently throughout the piece (x means play a sound, _ means rest).
So it's like tatata tata ta tata
Part 2 begins by playing this cell then cycles through 11 variations, each of which is shifted by one beat.
The system should have some user interface to pay and stop the music, as well as providing a way of modifying the tempo.
DN: On this page we've got a representation of the score.
(Laughter as Sole considers this too complicated for her to copy the sounds).
SP: OK, so we have on the first line both players playing the same.
And on the next repeat the first player is playing the same thing and the second player makes a shift on one side? Or it's like he's one step behind or ahead. Actually it's one step ahead, so we need to add one.
DN: Yeah... (thoughtfully)
SP: It keeps shifting and then at the end they are playing the same thing again.
DN: Yes, that's right.
So it's a very simple idea but it's surprisingly engaging.  The music that comes out of it is interesting: the noises it makes are quite exciting.
SP: Yes, interesting (laughter). I think it can serve to show a number of techniques because this is very in sync, and if things drift you can not totally notice...because ... Repeat one time.. I would say lots of elements.... Or just like garbage collector with like WOW this is a lot of things for me to worry about. So inaud.
DN: Yes, so you mentioned web audio; that's the technology you would use to solve this challenge?
SP: Yes. I don't think you can do it correctly without ..... OK?
DN: And that will run inside the browser.
SP: Yes. We work in .... Browser. I will go to .... Later but ... Even in mobiles, tablets so it's really cool... Can play that everywhere.
