# Chapter 11: Humanize the performance

SP: We have a thing which I think fulfils the challenge. So part one is playing this thingy part two is playing the variations. And we have a user interface to play and stop the music, and modify the tempo. That all works so the challenge should be fulfilled.
DN: Yes sure.
SP: The issue with this is it sounds super robotical!
Normally when you play an instrument and you are a human, you make some errors.
So I think we should make, every time a note is triggered it should be slightly not on time.

So we'll add some randomness to that.
I would start with doing that thing so it sounds a bit more natural.
Because right now it's too perfect.
DN: Yes, I've seen sequencing programs where they call it 'humanize' function, which adds some jitter.
Sp: Yes, well we can just change the start time slightly. Not by a whole beat, but more subtly. I will make it a little less perfect until it sounds a bit better. So for the last time, this is too perfect [they listen].
DN: Yes.
SP: We can make it a bit more ‘funny'. We know when things are starting which is... So this is the context playtime. So instead of using the contextPlayTime we might get some randomness here. Like, a little ‘indecisiveness' of the players. So I will say getSomeRandom. I'm going to make this function that will return positive and negative values. When you are playing you anticipate a bit. So players are not perfect, they're not totally in sync so it's ok to have some randomness here.
So what do we return. We can start with some randomness and then adjust depending on what we see. 0.5 second is a lot but so we can see the difference.
You can call the random() function but this returns [a value] between 0.0 and 1.0. So if I multiply that with 0.5 its going to be just 0.0 to 0.5.
DN: OK.
SP: So that is going to be a bit later. I want some to be a bit earlier so if I have `0.5 - Math.random()` this is going to be in -0.5 to 0.5.

Or, one minus this might be from aero to... So this can be negative or positive, I don't know (laughter)
DN: Wouldn't that be: the maximum value would now be zero?
SP: Yes.
So I want this thing.
So if it's zero it's 0.5? Or maybe...
Ok, I'm just going to leave it like that. Whatever.
DN: Let's see what happens.
So this needs a semi colon. Now it should be a bit more erratic.
Oh no, why not. What am I returning. If its negative? WAT? This doesn't make any sense. Why?
I'm going to debug this thingy. What is when? This is fine.
I guess it's because I've set the debugger, it introduces some delay, so I'm not having a negative time here. So I'm going to remove the breakpoint thingy.

It's really messy. Because they are really bad players!
[they listen]
DN: I think the variation there is longer than a beat isn't it?
SP: Yeah exactly.

SP: I hate this! I always want to have a page with all of the one-liners I can check and make sure that they're ok.
This is going to go from 1 to 0, but that's not what I want.
So if I multiply this...
This is me going off on a long-winded...
What am I doing? Argh!
One...
This is easier:
1-0=1
1-1=0

I think if it's:
0.5 - 1 = -0.5
0.5 - 0 =  0.5

Ok, this is the one I want. And if I multiply that by 2 I get the right thing. Ok.
SP: What I wanted actually to write from the beginning, but I didn't know how was:
[Sole types]
I knew that there was a one-liner, without the whole story.
DN: So that'll give you a value between -1.0 and +1.0?
SP: Yeah!

This is going to return from minus 1 to 1. I'm going to multiply that by something else. 0.1 of a second. Maybe we should base this on the beat.
This is because I'm working to small values.

SP: This is still very terrible.
Yes if the current time is minus we should win more probably.
I'm going to make it always be slower.

[they listen]

SP: Its slightly better.
DN: A little bit sloppy.
SP: But that's what you want.

[they listen]

This is too much let's make it slower.
It's not so mechanical, but maybe we can make it more crappy.
It's good to adjust and see when does it stop sounding terrible.
This is too much.
DN: It is yeah.
SP: This is too much I will leave it at 2.
DN: OK
[they listen]

SP: Yes this is good. If I make it 0 there is no change at all. It sound fully on the beat. This is very subtle.
DN: I think you left it at 0.2 rather than 0.02 there.
[they listen]
This is too much I would have left it there. Ok stop.

I must say variation.
Sometimes you need to explain what you did.
I was going to just say "make it more humane", but what does that mean?

